docs/spec/README.md, before:

Each page in the K8TRE Specification contains a specification statement, some background motivation if applicable, illustrative compliance information for a selection of Kubernetes-based TREs, and Q & A. They have been derived from [k8tre GitHub Org Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions), as well as discussion within the K8TRE working group.

Referenced illustrative Kubernetes-based TREs currently include:

- The K8TRE Reference Implementation itself.
- [TREu](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/advanced-research-computing/sensitive-data-and-trusted-research-environments) – the codebase for the UCL ARC TRE.
- [FRIDGE](https://dareuk.org.uk/how-we-work/ongoing-activities/dare-uk-early-adopters/fridge/) – note that FRIDGE is not a ["front-door" TRE](https://www.google.com/search?q=%22front-door%22+trusted+research+environment), but implements a TRE-like enclave on a compute facility.

## Interpretation of Specification Statements

### Scope
The K8TRE Specification applies to Kubernetes-based TRE *codebases*. It is written for an audience of K8TRE codebase developers and defines what a K8TRE-compliant codebase Must, Should or May provide.

The Specification _only_ includes statements related directly or indirectly to the use of Kubernetes as a technology platform; it does not cover other technical and system considerations. It is compatible with, and should be read with, the [SATRE specification](https://satre-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) and/or other relevant accreditations.

### Technology Neutrality
Beyond its explicit reliance on Kubernetes, the specification is technology-agnostic. However, it may prescribe capabilities that must be provided by a codebase.

### Applicability
These statements are directed at those developing K8TRE-compliant codebases. They are less useful to administrators or operators running a TRE built on such a codebase (a "deployment"). Instead, the TRE codebase being deployed should provide all required documentation.

## Design Principles

1. Whilst the Specification encourages Kubernetes best-practice, it will not impose particular implementation choices where many competing options exist. The Specification will leave room for TRE developers to make independent implementation choices based on their own organisational/business requirements, whilst still allowing acceptable choices to comply with the Specification.
2. Widespread compliance with the K8TRE Specification should result in different TRE developers in the TRE community being able to deploy each other's components in their own TREs with minimal changes to code, only changes to configuration. In other words, increased portability of open-source TRE components and applications.
3. The K8TRE Specification will specify, where appropriate, capabilities that must be provided by the underlying Kubernetes platform.

Commit message:

Satre linkage for existing spec statements (#133)
* 2.2.9 for Networking

* create new spec statement pages

* update existing pages with satre refs

* add new pages to mkdocs.yml

* add satre mapping to main.py

* move telemetry to networking.md

* tidy up language

* rework main.py for satre

* update implementation compliance sections

* fix typos

* clarify spec introduction

docs/spec/README.md, after:

Each page in the K8TRE Specification contains a specification statement, some background motivation if applicable, illustrative compliance information for a selection of Kubernetes-based TREs, and Q & A. They have been derived from [k8tre GitHub Org Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions), as well as discussion within the K8TRE working group.

Referenced illustrative Kubernetes-based TREs currently include:

- The K8TRE Reference Implementation itself.
- [TREu](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/advanced-research-computing/sensitive-data-and-trusted-research-environments) – the codebase for the UCL ARC TRE.
- [FRIDGE](https://dareuk.org.uk/how-we-work/ongoing-activities/dare-uk-early-adopters/fridge/) – note that FRIDGE is not a ["front-door" TRE](https://www.google.com/search?q=%22front-door%22+trusted+research+environment), but implements a TRE-like enclave on a compute facility.

## Interpretation of Specification Statements

### Scope
The K8TRE Specification applies to Kubernetes-based TRE *codebases*. It is written for an audience of K8TRE codebase developers and defines what a K8TRE-compliant codebase Must, Should or May provide.

The Specification therefore does not only includes statements related directly or indirectly to the use of Kubernetes as a technology platform; it also sets other technical and system requirements deemed important to the operating of a TRE. It is compatible with, and should be read with, the [SATRE specification](https://satre-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) and/or other relevant standards. Links to relevant SATRE components are indicated where applicable.

### Technology Neutrality
Beyond its explicit reliance on Kubernetes, the specification is technology-agnostic. However, it may prescribe capabilities that must be provided by a codebase.

### Applicability
These statements are directed at those developing K8TRE-compliant codebases. They are less useful to administrators or operators running a TRE built on such a codebase (a "deployment"). Instead, the TRE codebase being deployed should provide all required documentation.

## Design Principles

1. Whilst the Specification encourages Kubernetes best-practice, it will not impose particular implementation choices where many competing options exist. The Specification will leave room for TRE developers to make independent implementation choices based on their own organisational/business requirements, whilst still allowing acceptable choices to comply with the Specification.
2. Widespread conformity to the K8TRE Specification should result in different TRE developers in the TRE community being able to deploy each other's components in their own TREs with minimal changes to code, only changes to configuration. In other words, conformity to the Specification should result in increased portability of open-source TRE components and applications.
3. The K8TRE Specification will specify, where appropriate, capabilities that must be provided by the underlying Kubernetes platform.
