docs/spec/secrets.md, before:

---
topic: Secrets
last_updated: 2025-05-30
discussion: (https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions/6)
k8tre_statements:
  spec: Storing secrets unencrypted in etcd is not acceptable.
---

{{ spec_content(page.meta) }}

## Implementation Compliance

### K8TRE Reference Implementation

KMS provider and plugin the preferred solution for MVP.

### TREu

### FRIDGE

## FAQ

- How do we store secrets in and make them available to applications on the cluster? Use k8s default secrets storage or more secure alternative backends?
- How do we generate secrets and get them into k8s in the first place?

    - k8s default is to store secrets unencrypted in etcd, this is not acceptable. k8s offers you the options:
        - encrypt at rest using a KMS provider and plugin to encrypt etcd. 
        - use the [secrets-store-csi-driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/concepts.html) and supported provider to access external secrets store.
    - Use existing organisation secrets manager where possible, enabling centralised management of credentials across an org.

Commit message:

update existing pages with satre refs

docs/spec/secrets.md, after:

---
topic: Secrets
last_updated: 2025-05-30
discussion: (https://github.com/orgs/k8tre/discussions/6)
k8tre_statements:
  spec: Storing secrets unencrypted in etcd is not acceptable.
  satre:
    - ref: 2.5.12
      rationale: SATRE requires TRE operators to encrypt project and user data at rest. Storing secrets unencrypted in etcd may be equivalent to storing project and user data unencrypted, since secrets can be used by malicious actors to access, change, or change access to project and user data.
---

{{ spec_content(page.meta) }}

## Implementation Compliance

### K8TRE Reference Implementation

KMS provider and plugin the preferred solution for MVP.

### TREu

### FRIDGE

## FAQ

- How do we store secrets in and make them available to applications on the cluster? Use k8s default secrets storage or more secure alternative backends?
- How do we generate secrets and get them into k8s in the first place?

    - k8s default is to store secrets unencrypted in etcd, this is not acceptable. k8s offers you the options:
        - encrypt at rest using a KMS provider and plugin to encrypt etcd. 
        - use the [secrets-store-csi-driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/concepts.html) and supported provider to access external secrets store.
    - Use existing organisation secrets manager where possible, enabling centralised management of credentials across an org.
